Add blog: ambient ebpf redirection (#12890)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2023/ambient-ebpf-redirection/index.md

---
title: "Leverage eBPF for traffic redirection in Istio ambient mode"
description: An alternative approach to redirect application pod traffic to ztunnel in Istio ambient mode.
publishdate: 2023-03-15
attribution: "Iris Ding (Intel), Chun Li (Intel)"
keywords: [istio,ambient,ztunnel,eBPF]
---

The istio-cni component running on each Kubernetes worker node is responsible for redirecting application pod traffics to ztunnel on that node. By default it relies on iptables and

> Geneve tunnel to achieve this redirection.  Now a new approach which is based on eBPF is also available in Istio ambient mode for this purpose.

Reviewer: What is "Geneve tunnel" and why is that significant? Add a link?

Reviewer 2: sure, will add a link  for Geneve tunnel.

> ## Why eBPF

Reviewer: Also need "Why not eBPF? If the new eBPF way is better, why isn't it the default implementation?

Using eBPF (or not) to redirect the traffic seems like an implementation detail. Why are you presenting this feature as a user choice? If it's just because it's a potentially buggy prototype, that will become the default in the future, this blog post should say that and also list any current limitations. If on the other hand there will be 2 implementations for the foreseeable future, then we need to clearly list the pros and cons of both implementations.

Reviewer 2: will add a section about pros and cons

In the context of Istio ambient mode redirection, although performance is undoubtedly important, it is imperative to recognize that, programmability or possibility takes precedence. With eBPF, you can leverage additional context to make these changes in the kernel so that packets can bypass complex routing and simply arrive at their final destination, that is sought-after for redirection datapath. Moreover, eBPF will provide the same or better control in datapath compared with iptables while providing the end of user experience that we are looking for.

> 

Reviewer 3: Somewhere in the blog, would be nice to specify the kernel requirement of using this function?

Reviewer 3: also, would be nice to specify how this works with various network CNIs?  I think the current code by-pass the CNI logic?

Also, if you have done any test with any of the cloud providers, worth noting that.

## How it works

> The eBPF program attached to the traffic control ingress and egress hook has been compiled into istio-cni component.  The istio-cni component will watch pod events and attach/detach the eBPF program to related network interface when the pod is moved into/out of the ambient mode. A detailed picture is as below:

Reviewer 2: will add explanation here

{{< image width="100%"
    link="ambient-ebpf.png"
    caption="ambient eBPF architecture"
    >}}

## How to enable eBPF redirection in Istio ambient mode

Follow the [get-started-ambient](/blog/2022/get-started-ambient/) to set up the cluster. When to install Istio,  set the `values.cni.ambient.redirectMode` configuration parameter with the following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl install --set profile=ambient  --set values.cni.ambient.redirectMode="ebpf"
{{< /text >}}

Grab the istio-cni logs to confirm eBPF redirection is on:

{{< text plain >}}
ambient Writing ambient config: {"ztunnelReady":true,"redirectMode":"eBPF"}
{{< /text >}}

## Performance gains

The latency for eBPF mode is bit better than IPtables mode especially when client and server located within the same node. The following test cases are run in a kind cluster which

> consists of a Fortio client sending requests to a Fortio server with both of them running in ambient mode(with debug log turned off in eBPF).

Reviewer 3: Do you have test scripts somewhere you could link to, for readers who wants to run the tests?

Reviewer 2: will add the command we used for this performance testing

> {{< image width="90%" link="./Latency-same-node.png" alt="Latency(ms) for client-server located in the same node" title="Latency(ms) for client-server located in the same node" caption="Latency(ms) for client-server located in the same node" >}}

Reviewer 4: Latency at Max QPS is a bad benchmarking practice. I am not sure why we even have QPS as an X axis here, it doesn't add much value and its not something that typically varies latency. connections may be more useful if we want an X axis

Reviewer 2: will update it to use connections as X axis

> {{< image width="90%" link="./Latency-different-node.png" alt="Latency(ms) for client-server located in different node" title="Latency(ms) for client-server located in different node" caption="Latency(ms) for client-server located in different node" >}}

Reviewer 4: "Cross node" when its a kind cluster on the same machine seems a bit misleading...

Reviewer 2: will remove the cross node data

{{< image width="90%" link="./MaxQPS-same-node.png" alt="Max QPS for client-server located in the same node" title="Max QPS for client-server located in the same node" caption="Max QPS for client-server located in the same node" >}}

> {{< image width="90%" link="./MaxQPS-different-node.png" alt="Max QPS for client-server located in different node" title="Max QPS for client-server located in different node" caption="Max QPS for client-server located in different node" >}}

Reviewer: +1, including a clear is message this article is trying to convey, and where is this work going in the future.

> {{< image width="90%" link="./MaxQPS-different-node.png" alt="Max QPS for client-server located in different node" title="Max QPS for client-server located in different node" caption="Max QPS for client-server located in different node" >}}

Reviewer 4: This is super super misleading. Please start the axis as 0.

Reviewer 2: will fix it

---
title: "Leverage eBPF for traffic redirection in Istio ambient mode"
description: An alternative approach to redirect application pod traffic to ztunnel in Istio ambient mode.
publishdate: 2023-03-15
attribution: "Iris Ding (Intel), Chun Li (Intel)"
keywords: [istio,ambient,ztunnel,eBPF]
---

> The istio-cni component running on each Kubernetes worker node is responsible for redirecting application pod traffics to ztunnel on that node. By default it relies on iptables and
> [Geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html) tunnel to achieve this redirection.  Now a new approach which is based on eBPF is also available in Istio ambient mode for this purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The istio-cni component running on each Kubernetes worker node is responsible for redirecting application pod traffic to ztunnel on that node. By default it relies on iptables and a
[Geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html) tunnel to achieve this redirection.  Now, a new approach which is based on eBPF is also available in Istio ambient mode for this purpose.
```

Author: updated

## Why eBPF

> In the context of Istio ambient mode redirection, although performance is undoubtedly important, it is imperative to recognize that, programmability or possibility takes precedence. With eBPF, you can leverage additional context to make these changes in the kernel so that packets can bypass complex routing and simply arrive at their final destination, that is sought-after for redirection datapath. Moreover, eBPF will provide the same or better control in datapath compared with iptables while providing the end of user experience that we are looking for.

Reviewer: > programmability or possibility takes precedence

What do you mean by `possibility takes precedence`? Possibility of what?

> eBPF will provide the same or better control

Better how? Are there limitations with iptables, that only eBPF can overcome?

> providing the end of user experience that we are looking for.

What end user experience are you referring to? The redirection?

## How it works

> The eBPF program attached to the [traffic control](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/tc-bpf.8.html) ingress and egress hook has been compiled into istio-cni component. The istio-cni component will watch pod events and attach/detach the eBPF program to related network interface when the pod is moved into/out of the ambient mode.

Reviewer: This is confusing. It says that the eBPF program `is attached to the ...`, but then the next sentence says the istio-cni component will watch pod events and `attach/detach` the program. It sounds like this is saying that the same program is being attached to multiple things. Is that right? Would this be more clear?
```suggestion
An eBPF program, attached to the [traffic control](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/tc-bpf.8.html) ingress and egress hook, has been compiled into istio-cni component. The istio-cni component will watch pod events and attach/detach the eBPF program to other related network interfaces when the pod is moved into or out of ambient mode.

```

Author: Thanks for making it more clear. Updated

{{< image width="55%"
    link="ambient-ebpf.png"
    caption="ambient eBPF architecture"
    >}}

> Utilizing eBPF program(instead of iptables) means eliminating encapsulating(for Geneve) tasks and shifting routing tasks to be customized in the kernel space, which yields gains in performance and flexibilities in routing. In summary, all traffic from/to the application pod will be intercepted and redirected to the corresponding ztunnel pod. On ztunnel side, proper redirection will be performed based connection lookup result within eBPF program. This would provide a more precise level of control over the network traffic between application and ztunnel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using an eBPF program (instead of iptables) eliminates the need to encapsulate tasks (for Geneve), allowing the routing tasks to be customized in the kernel space instead. This yields gains in both performance and flexibility in routing.

To summarize, all traffic from/to the application pod will be intercepted by eBPF and redirected to the corresponding ztunnel pod. On the ztunnel side, proper redirection will be performed based on connection lookup results within the eBPF program. This provides a more precise level of control over the network traffic between the application and ztunnel.
```

## How to enable eBPF redirection in Istio ambient mode

> Follow the [get-started-ambient](/blog/2022/get-started-ambient/) to set up the cluster. When to install Istio,  set the `values.cni.ambient.redirectMode` configuration parameter with the following command:

Author: updated

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl install --set profile=ambient  --set values.cni.ambient.redirectMode="ebpf"
{{< /text >}}

> Grab the istio-cni logs to confirm eBPF redirection is on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the istio-cni logs to confirm eBPF redirection is on:

```

{{< text plain >}}
ambient Writing ambient config: {"ztunnelReady":true,"redirectMode":"eBPF"}
{{< /text >}}

## Performance gains

> The latency and throughput(QPS) for eBPF mode is bit better than IPtables mode. The following test cases are run in a kind cluster which
> consists of a Fortio client sending requests to a Fortio server with both of them running in ambient mode(with debug log turned off in eBPF and client/server located in the same k8s node).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latency and throughput (QPS) for eBPF mode is somewhat better than IPtables mode. The following tests were run in a kind cluster with
a Fortio client sending requests to a Fortio server, both running in ambient mode (with debug log turned off in eBPF) and on the same k8s node.
```

> {{< image width="90%" link="./MaxQPS.png" alt="Max QPS with different connection numbers " title="Max QPS with different connection numbers" caption="Max QPS with different connection numbers" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< image width="90%" link="./MaxQPS.png" alt="Max QPS with different connection numbers " title="Max QPS with different connection numbers" caption="Max QPS with varying number of connections" >}}

```

> The above metrics are tested with following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above metrics were produced with following command:

```

{{< text bash >}}

> $ fortio load -t 60s -qps 0 -c <connection_nums> http://<fortio-svc-name>:8080

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ fortio load -t 60s -qps 0 -c <num_connections> http://<fortio-svc-name>:8080

```

{{< /text >}}

> {{< image width="90%" link="./Latency-with-8000-qps.png" alt="Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with different connection numbers" title="Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with different connection numbers" caption="Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with different connection numbers" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< image width="90%" link="./Latency-with-8000-qps.png" alt="Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with different connection numbers" title="Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with different connection numbers" caption="Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" >}}

```

> The above metrics are tested with following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above metrics were produced with following command:

```

{{< text bash >}}

> $ fortio load -t 60s -qps 8000 -c <connection_nums> http://<fortio-svc-name>:8080

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ fortio load -t 60s -qps 8000 -c <num_connections> http://<fortio-svc-name>:8080

```

---
title: "Leverage eBPF for traffic redirection in Istio ambient mode"
description: An alternative approach to redirect application pod traffic to ztunnel in Istio ambient mode.
publishdate: 2023-03-15
attribution: "Iris Ding (Intel), Chun Li (Intel)"
keywords: [istio,ambient,ztunnel,eBPF]
---

> The istio-cni component running on each Kubernetes worker node is responsible for redirecting application pod traffic to ztunnel on that node. By default it relies on iptables and
> [Geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html) tunnels to achieve this redirection. Now, a new approach which is based on eBPF is also available in Istio ambient mode for this purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Istio ambient mode, the istio-cni component running on each Kubernetes worker node is responsible for redirecting application pod traffic to ztunnel on that node. By default it relies on iptables and
[Geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html) tunnels to achieve this redirection. Now, a new approach which is based on eBPF is also available in Istio for this purpose.
```

## Why eBPF

> In the context of Istio ambient mode redirection, although performance is undoubtedly important, it is also imperative to recognize the importance of programmability, which enables the implementation of versatile and customized requirements. With eBPF, you can leverage additional context to make these changes in the kernel so that packets can bypass complex routing and simply arrive at their final destination, that is sought-after for redirection datapath. Furthermore,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although performance considerations are essential in the implementation of Istio ambient mode redirection, it's also important to consider ease of programmability, to enable the implementation of versatile and customized requirements. With eBPF, you can leverage additional context in the kernel to bypass complex routing and simply send packets to there final destination. Furthermore,
```

Follow the [Getting Started with Ambient Mesh](/blog/2022/get-started-ambient/) instructions to set up your cluster but, when you install Istio, set the `values.cni.ambient.redirectMode` configuration parameter to `ebpf`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl install --set profile=ambient  --set values.cni.ambient.redirectMode="ebpf"
{{< /text >}}

Check the istio-cni logs to confirm eBPF redirection is on:

{{< text plain >}}
ambient Writing ambient config: {"ztunnelReady":true,"redirectMode":"eBPF"}
{{< /text >}}

## Performance gains

The latency and throughput (QPS) for eBPF mode is somewhat better than IPtables mode. The following tests were run in a kind cluster with
a Fortio client sending requests to a Fortio server, both running in ambient mode (with debug log turned off in eBPF) and on the same k8s node.

{{< image width="90%" link="./MaxQPS.png" alt="Max QPS with varying number of connections" title="Max QPS with varying number of connections" caption="Max QPS with varying number of connections" >}}

The above metrics were produced with following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ fortio load -t 60s -qps 0 -c <num_connections> http://<fortio-svc-name>:8080
{{< /text >}}

> {{< image width="90%" link="./Latency-with-8000-qps.png" alt="Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" title="Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" caption="Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< image width="90%" link="./Latency-with-8000-qps.png" alt="Latency (ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" title="Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" caption="Latency (ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" >}}

```

---

> title: "Leverage eBPF for traffic redirection in Istio ambient mode"

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
title: "Using eBPF for traffic redirection in Istio ambient mode"
```

Traffic forwarding?  Routing?

> description: An alternative approach to redirect application pod traffic to ztunnel in Istio ambient mode.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
description: An alternative approach to redirecting application pod traffic to the per-node ztunnel.
```

publishdate: 2023-03-15
attribution: "Iris Ding (Intel), Chun Li (Intel)"
keywords: [istio,ambient,ztunnel,eBPF]
---

> In Istio ambient mode, the istio-cni component running on each Kubernetes worker node is responsible for redirecting application pod traffic to ztunnel on that node. By default it relies on iptables and
> [Geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html) tunnels to achieve this redirection. Now, a new approach which is based on eBPF is also available in Istio for this purpose.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In Istio's new [ambient mode](/blog/2022/introducing-ambient-mesh/), the `istio-cni` component running on each Kubernetes worker node is responsible for redirecting application traffic to the zero-trust tunnel (ztunnel) on that node. By default it relies on iptables and
[Generic Network Virtualization Encapsulation (Geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html)) overlay tunnels to achieve this redirection. We have now added support for an eBPF-based method of traffic redirection.

```

## Why eBPF

> Although performance considerations are essential in the implementation of Istio ambient mode redirection, it's also important to consider ease of programmability, to enable the implementation of versatile and customized requirements. With eBPF, you can leverage additional context in the kernel to bypass complex routing and simply send packets to there final destination. Furthermore,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although performance considerations are essential in the implementation of Istio ambient mode redirection, it's also important to consider ease of programmability, to enable the implementation of versatile and customized requirements. With eBPF, you can leverage additional context in the kernel to bypass complex routing and simply send packets to their final destination. Furthermore,

```

eBPF enables deeper visibility and additional context for packets in the kernel, allowing for more efficient and flexible management of data flow compared with iptables.

## How it works

> An eBPF program, attached to the [traffic control](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/tc-bpf.8.html) ingress and egress hook, has been compiled into istio-cni component. The istio-cni component will watch pod events and attach/detach the eBPF program to other related network interfaces when the pod is moved into or out of ambient mode.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
An eBPF program, attached to the [traffic control](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/tc-bpf.8.html) ingress and egress hook, has been compiled into the Istio CNI component. `istio-cni` will watch pod events and attach/detach the eBPF program to other related network interfaces when the pod is moved into or out of ambient mode.
```

> {{< image width="55%"
>     link="ambient-ebpf.png"
>     caption="ambient eBPF architecture"
>     >}}
> 
> Using an eBPF program (instead of iptables) eliminates the need to encapsulate tasks (for Geneve), allowing the routing tasks to be customized in the kernel space instead. This yields gains in both performance and flexibility in routing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using an eBPF program (instead of iptables) eliminates the need to encapsulate tasks (for Geneve), allowing the routing tasks to be customized in the kernel space instead. This yields gains in both performance and flexibility in routing.

{{< image width="55%"
    link="ambient-ebpf.png"
    caption="ambient eBPF architecture"
    >}}
```

Reviewer 5: Are the gains in performance in routing?

"This yields gains in performance, and flexibility in routing".

or 

"This yields both gains in performance, and additional flexibility, in routing".

Reviewer 5: "kernel space", not "the kernel space"

> To summarize, all traffic from/to the application pod will be intercepted by eBPF and redirected to the corresponding ztunnel pod. On the ztunnel side, proper redirection will be performed based on connection lookup results within the eBPF program. This provides a more efficient control over the network traffic between the application and ztunnel.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
All traffic to/from the application pod will be intercepted by eBPF and redirected to the corresponding ztunnel pod. On the ztunnel side, proper redirection will be performed based on connection lookup results within the eBPF program. This provides more efficient control of the network traffic between the application and ztunnel.
```

## How to enable eBPF redirection in Istio ambient mode

Follow the [Getting Started with Ambient Mesh](/blog/2022/get-started-ambient/) instructions to set up your cluster but, when you install Istio, set the `values.cni.ambient.redirectMode` configuration parameter to `ebpf`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl install --set profile=ambient --set values.cni.ambient.redirectMode="ebpf"
{{< /text >}}

> Check the istio-cni logs to confirm eBPF redirection is on:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Check the `istio-cni` logs to confirm eBPF redirection is on:

```

{{< text plain >}}
ambient Writing ambient config: {"ztunnelReady":true,"redirectMode":"eBPF"}
{{< /text >}}

## Performance gains

> The latency and throughput (QPS) for eBPF mode is somewhat better than IPtables mode. The following tests were run in a kind cluster with

Reviewer 4: I followed what I thought was thsame steps and saw
RPS@256 connections:
ebpf: 114k
iptables: 248k

RPS@16 connections:
ebpf: 42k
iptables: 126k

latency @ 1000qps 16c:
ebpf: .6ms
iptables: .35ms

Seems pretty contrary to the results seen here?

This was running on a single node kind cluster on top of a 48 core GCE machine

Reviewer 4: oof, I think there is a bug causing the redirection to be lost entirely, so "iptables" was actually "no ztunnel"

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/43991 :slightly_smiling_face: 

Real numbers:
RPS@256 connections:
ebpf: 114k
iptables: 118k

RPS@16 connections:
ebpf: 42k
iptables: 44k

latency @ 1000qps 16c:
ebpf: .6ms
iptables: .58ms

So I still see a slight edge for iptables

Author: Weird...  My test result is base on istio(5905cf2a037835f3c4ba490f685ed712aa9593e0) and ztunnel(fbb8bf6d2ee015675e73458eb2fc99f02d3af41a).
And I disabled ebpf debug log with my test by:
```
diff --git a/cni/pkg/ebpf/app/ambient_redirect.bpf.c b/cni/pkg/ebpf/app/ambient_redirect.bpf.c
index ff42a6f8b6..fe7711fc73 100644
--- a/cni/pkg/ebpf/app/ambient_redirect.bpf.c
+++ b/cni/pkg/ebpf/app/ambient_redirect.bpf.c
@@ -18,10 +18,12 @@
 
 #include "ambient_redirect.h"
 
-#define dbg(fmt, ...)                               \
-    ({                                              \
-        bpf_printk("[Debug]: " fmt, ##__VA_ARGS__); \
-    })
+//#define dbg(fmt, ...)                               \
+//    ({                                              \
+//        bpf_printk("[Debug]: " fmt, ##__VA_ARGS__); \
+//    })
+
+#define dbg(fmt, ...)  
 
 
 /* This is an array to store host network(ip) info
```
I retested on my env, even with ebpf debug log on, it has a slight edge for iptables.

Reviewer 4: If someone needs to fork Istio to get good performance then that means no one will see this. Please benchmark what users will *actually get* when they follow the steps, not if they run some undocumented forked code.

Author: BTW, which is OS & kernel version of your GCE machine?

Reviewer 4: 6.1.15, its ~Debian

Reviewer 2: @howardjohn https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/44044  ebpf debug log is turned off by default

The latency and throughput (QPS) for eBPF mode is somewhat better than IPtables mode. The following tests were run in a kind cluster with
a Fortio client sending requests to a Fortio server, both running in ambient mode (with debug log turned off in eBPF) and on the same k8s node.

{{< image width="90%" link="./MaxQPS.png" alt="Max QPS with varying number of connections" title="Max QPS with varying number of connections" caption="Max QPS with varying number of connections" >}}

The above metrics were produced with the following command:

{{< text bash >}}
$ fortio load -t 60s -qps 0 -c <num_connections> http://<fortio-svc-name>:8080
{{< /text >}}

> {{< image width="90%" link="./Latency-with-8000-qps.png" alt="Latency (ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" title="Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" caption="Latency (ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" >}}

Reviewer 4: Latency metrics should have at what percentile the data is at

Author: OK. Current latency metrics is based on average latency. Do you think we should more precise like P50/P75/P90/P99 metrics for latency dimension?

Reviewer 4: yes, "latency" is not a useful metric without the associated percentile. We can just put in the doc which one we used, we don't need to report multiple

The above metrics were produced with the following command:

{{< text bash >}}

> $ fortio load -t 60s -qps 8000 -c <num_connections> http://<fortio-svc-name>:8080

Reviewer 4: in the future I recommend `-uniform` flag, fortio's defaults are bad IMO

Author: thx, we could regenerate the data with `-uniform` after the unmerged PR going to master.

## How it works

An eBPF program, attached to the [traffic control](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/tc-bpf.8.html) ingress and egress hook, has been compiled into the Istio CNI component. `istio-cni` will watch pod events and attach/detach the eBPF program to other related network interfaces when the pod is moved into or out of ambient mode.

Using an eBPF program (instead of iptables) eliminates the need to encapsulate tasks (for Geneve), allowing the routing tasks to be customized in kernel space instead. This yields both gains in performance, and additional flexibility, in routing.

{{< image width="55%"
    link="ambient-ebpf.png"
    caption="ambient eBPF architecture"
    >}}

All traffic to/from the application pod will be intercepted by eBPF and redirected to the corresponding ztunnel pod. On the ztunnel side, proper redirection will be performed based on connection lookup results within the eBPF program. This provides more efficient control of the network traffic between the application and ztunnel.

## How to enable eBPF redirection in Istio ambient mode

> Follow the [Getting Started with Ambient Mesh](/blog/2022/get-started-ambient/) instructions to set up your cluster but, when you install Istio, set the `values.cni.ambient.redirectMode` configuration parameter to `ebpf`:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Follow the instructions in [Getting Started with Ambient Mesh](/blog/2022/get-started-ambient/) to set up your cluster, with a small change: when you install Istio, set the `values.cni.ambient.redirectMode` configuration parameter to `ebpf`.
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl install --set profile=ambient --set values.cni.ambient.redirectMode="ebpf"
{{< /text >}}

Check the `istio-cni` logs to confirm eBPF redirection is on:

{{< text plain >}}
ambient Writing ambient config: {"ztunnelReady":true,"redirectMode":"eBPF"}
{{< /text >}}

## Performance gains

> The latency and throughput (QPS) for eBPF mode is somewhat better than IPtables mode. The following tests were run in a kind cluster with

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The latency and throughput (QPS) for eBPF redirection are somewhat better than using iptables. The following tests were run in a `kind` cluster with
```

> a Fortio client sending requests to a Fortio server, both running in ambient mode (with debug log turned off in eBPF) and on the same k8s node.
> 
> {{< image width="90%" link="./MaxQPS.png" alt="Max QPS with varying number of connections" title="Max QPS with varying number of connections" caption="Max QPS with varying number of connections" >}}
> 
> The above metrics were produced with the following command:
> 
> {{< text bash >}}
> $ fortio load -uniform -t 60s -qps 0 -c <num_connections> http://<fortio-svc-name>:8080
> {{< /text >}}
> 
> {{< image width="90%" link="./P75-Latency-with-8000-qps.png" alt="Latency (ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" title="P75 Latency(ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" caption="P75 Latency (ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" >}}
> 
> The above metrics were produced with the following command:
> 
> {{< text bash >}}
> $ fortio load -uniform -t 60s -qps 8000 -c <num_connections> http://<fortio-svc-name>:8080
> {{< /text >}}
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
a Fortio client sending requests to a Fortio server, both running in ambient mode (with eBPF debug logging disabled) and on the same Kubernetes worker node.

{{< text bash >}}
$ fortio load -uniform -t 60s -qps 0 -c <num_connections> http://<fortio-svc-name>:8080
{{< /text >}}

{{< image width="90%" link="./MaxQPS.png" alt="Max QPS with varying number of connections" title="Max QPS with varying number of connections" caption="Max QPS, with varying number of connections" >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ fortio load -uniform -t 60s -qps 8000 -c <num_connections> http://<fortio-svc-name>:8080
{{< /text >}}

{{< image width="90%" link="./P75-Latency-with-8000-qps.png" alt="Latency (ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" title="P75 Latency (ms) for 8000 QPS, with varying number of connections" caption="P75 Latency (ms) for QPS 8000 with varying number of connections" >}}

```

This removes some of the "this relates to that" text by moving the commands above the graphs.

## Wrapping up

Both eBPF and iptables have their own advantages and disadvantages when it comes to traffic redirection. eBPF is a modern, flexible, and powerful alternative that allows for more customization in rule creation and offers better performance. However, it does require a modern kernel version (4.20 or later for redirection case) which may not be available on some systems. On the other hand, iptables is widely used and compatible with most Linux distributions, even those with older kernels. However, it lacks the flexibility and extensibility of eBPF and may have lower performance.

Ultimately, the choice between eBPF and iptables for traffic redirection will depend on the specific needs and requirements of the system, as well as the user's level of expertise in using each tool. Some users may prefer the simplicity and compatibility of iptables, while others may require the flexibility and performance of eBPF.

> There is still plenty of work to be done, including integration with various CNI plugins, and contributions to improve the ease of use would be greatly welcomed.

Reviewer 5: Close with a call to action: "Please join us in #ambient on the [Istio slack](https://slack.istio.io/)", or whatever is appropriate
